# Nutrition-Assistant
In  Android  Application  development,  a  Mobile  Application  or  appis  a  software  designed  for  smartphones  and  mobile devices. Applications were originally intended to for productivity assistance such as email, calendar, and contact databases, but the public demand for apps caused rapid expansion into other areas such as mobile games, factory automation, health care, dietary applications, GPS and location-based services and ticket purchases. Apps are generally downloaded from application distribution platforms which are operated by the owner of the mobile operating system, such as Google Play Store.This  project  proposes  the  implementation  of  nutrition and  diet  related  application  with  the  help  of  the  recent technology named “Android”. By using Android as the spine behind the development of application, we can make the  application  more  stable,  more  flawless  and  less  complex.  Java  supporting  feature  enables  developers  to  enhance more features. Hence more and new features can be added easily by inheriting all properties of Java.For  the  development  of  android  application  two  languages  can  be  used  to  namely  Java  and  Kotlin.  For  development  of  this  project  we  are  using  Java  as  main  language.  Due  to  secure,  stable,  robust    and  many  more  features of Java makes this application more stable and efficient.The project mainly focuses on the diet plans and health of user. With the onset of Technology finding new ways to ease our lives, we are leading to sedentary lifestyle which directly affects person’s health. When we look at ourselves, we know that in this fast pace life we hardly have time to maintain a healthy body. So, either a person can make time for daily workout routines or not, the easiest way to maintain a healthy body and then in turn a healthy mind is only through a balanced healthy diet. Someone rightly said that each individual is unique in his or her own way and it holds very true in terms of health too. Each person needs to have a specific calorie intake according to their BMR (Body Mass Ratio). The first thing that comes to mind is to get a personal trainer but not everyone is financially blessed to follow through it. And for those who are, even they can't be sure whether the 
vi trainer is actually helping them or gaining his own profit by giving supplements. Many just turn their eyes away from any sorts of supplements. This project named as “Nutrition Assistant” comes to the rescue for all. This is the cheapest personal trainer and nutritionist that every person can afford; and it helps the user without any use of supplements - only a healthy diet. If anyone is suffering or going through a disease, the Nutrition Assistant will also help them create a diet plan which is helpful to them (i.e. taking their disease into consideration).
